                     B455: Principles of Machine Learning
                             HW2 (Due: Feb. 21 Friday 5pm)
   1. Modify the perceptron implementation (see the notebook pcn_example.ipynb shared with
      you on the shared google drive) to use the adaline model (using the linear activation
      function). You should modify the code to use the linear activation function and the
      update algorithm accordingly. You should train your model using the input data for the
      OR gate (Note: here you can use the real output 0 or 1 to update the weights, while the
      predicted output will be a real number. You also need to determine a threshold to convert
      the output into the final output 0 or 1). You should submit your modified implementation
      in a notebook file through canvas, which should include the implementation as well as a
      short description of result.

   2. Using the linear regression function in NumPy (see page 66 of the ML book) to solve the
      following problem. You should submit your code in a notebook file through canvas,
      which should include the implementation and the input data as well as a short discussion
      about your result. The table below lists the top ten colleges based on mid-career salary
      and the associated yearly tuition costs. Use the data to check if the higher cost of tuition
      translate into higher-paying jobs.
School                     Mid-Career Salary (in thousands)                   Yearly Tuition
Princeton                 137                                                 28,540
Harvey Mudd               135                                                 40,133
CalTech                   127                                                 39,900
US Naval Academy          122                                                 0
West Point                120                                                 0
MIT                       118                                                 42,050
Lehigh University         118                                                 43,220
NYU-Poly                  117                                                 39,565
Babson College            117                                                 40,400
Stanford                  114                                                 54,506

   3. A logistic model can be used to evaluate the effect of a (binary) factor combined with
      other variables on the observed consequences. Consider the example as follows. In a five-
      year follow-up study on N disease-free human subjects, researchers aim to assess the
      effect of the environmental exposure to a heavy metal (E=1, exposed or 0 not exposed)
      on the development (or not) of a certain disease. The continuous variables of interests are
      age (AGE) and obesity status (OBS), the environmental factor E of each subject was
      determined at the start of the study. Devise the logit form of a logistic regression model
      that assesses the interaction effects of AGE with E and OBS with E, and explain how the
      model can be learned from the data (where each data point represents a human subject
      with the known disease status (0/1), AGE, OBS and E). (Hint: the interaction effects of
      AGE and E can be modeled by a created variable AGEE=AGE * E; similar for
      OBSE=OBE * E. You also need to consider the effects of the independent variables
      AGE, OBS and E, respectively).

   4. (Problem 4.2) Suppose that the local power company wants to predict electricity demand
      for the next 5 days. They have the data about daily demand for the last 5 years. Typically,
      the demand will be a number between 80 and 400.
   a) Describe how you could use an MLP to make the prediction. What parameters would you
      have to choose, and what do you think would be sensible values for them?
    b) If the weather forecast for the next day, being the estimated temperatures for daytime and
       nighttime, was available, how would you add that into your system?
    c) Do you think that this system would work well for predicting power consumption? Are
       there demands that it would not be able to predict?

    5. (Problem 4.9) A hospital manager wants to predict how many beds will be needed in the
        geriatric ward. He asks you to design a neural network method for making this prediction.
        He has data for the last 5 years that cover:
        • The number of people in the geriatric ward each week.
        • The weather (average day and night temperatures).
        • The season of the year (spring, summer, autumn, winter).
        • Whether or not there was an epidemic on (use a binary variable: yes or no).
Design a suitable MLP for this problem, considering how you would choose the number of
hidden neurons, the inputs (and whether there are any other inputs you need) and the
preprocessing, and whether or not you would expect the system to work.

    6. In the k-nearest neighbor (KNN) method, the prediction can be made by the majority vote
       when these neighbors do not have the same property (e.g., see below for predicting the
       color of a new data point U based on its top k=3 nearest neighbors in the space of two
       features width and height). 1) if all neighbors are given the same weight in the KNN
       (k=3) method, what will be the prediction? 2) if the vote is made according to the inverse
       square of distant w ~ 1/d2, what will be the prediction? Justify your answers.
