B455: Principles of Machine Learning
HW4 (Due: Apr. 13 Monday)
https://iu.instructure.com/courses/1857020

1. (15 pts) Devise a decision tree that computes the logical AND function. How
accurate do you think it is? Can you make a decision that computes the logical
XOR function perfectly accurate?
2. (10 pts) When you arrive at the pub, your five friends already have their drinks on
the table. Jim has a job and buys the round half of the time. Jane buys the round a
quarter of the time, and Sarah and Simon buy a round one eighth of the time. John
hasn’t got his wallet out since you met him three years ago. Compute the entropy
of each of them buying the round and work out how many questions you need to
ask (on average) to find out who bought the round.
3. (15 pts) Two more friends now arrive and everybody spontaneously decides that it
is your turn to buy a round (for all eight of you). Your friends set you the
challenge of deciding who is drinking beer and who is drinking vodka according
to their gender (Female: T and Male: F), whether or not they are students, and
whether they went to the pub last night. Use ID3 to build a decision tree to help
you decide. What will be the prediction for one of your friends who is a female
student and did not go to pub last night, based on the decision tree?

4. (20 pts) Modify the decision tree algorithm implemented in maketree.ipynb
(available at google drive) to use Gini Impurity (instead of information entropy)
to build decision tree prediction model. You should submit your modified
implementation in a notebook file through canvas, which should include the
implementation as well as a short description of your implementation.
5. (10 pts) Stumping is a simple method to produce multiple predictors for bagging
ensemble learning, in which each time a single most informative (e.g., measured
by the entropy gain) feature in a bagging dataset is picked up and used alone for
prediction. For a binary classification problem this will typically get at least half
of the dataset correct. Why? How does this statement generalize to multiple
classes prediction?

6. (20 pts) Implement a random forest predictive model based on the decision tree
implementation of maketree.ipynb (available at google drive). Adjust the
parameters of the random forest model (including the number of trees N and the
number features used in building each tree m) and apply it on the breast cancer
data set (used in Project 3). You should submit your modified implementation in
a notebook file through canvas, which should include the implementation as well
as a short description of result of comparing the performance of your
implementation with the results from Project II.
7. (10 pts) Dr. Smart claims one does not need to apply the tree pruning algorithm
when building each decision tree in the random forest model. Do you think he is
correct? Justify your answer.

