B455: Principles of Machine Learning
HW5 (Due: Apr. 27 Monday)
https://iu.instructure.com/courses/1857020

1. (30 pts) Given the following four data points in two dimensions: (-2, -1), (-1, 0),
(1, 0), (2, 1), a) what is the covariance matrix of these data points? b) compute the
eigen values and the eigenvectors of the covariant matrix? c) compute the
principal components of the data points; d) given the labels of three points (-2, 1), (-1,0) and (1, 0) as the positive class, and the label of the point (2, 1) and as the
negative class, compute the maximum discriminating projection of the data
according to the linear discriminant analysis (LDA). e) why will not LDA give the
principal component with the greatest variation?
2.

(10 pts) Dr. Smart wants to use the principal component analysis (PCA) to embed
data points in d-dimensions into lower t-dimensions (t < d). He suggested to form
a t*d principal component matrix P by using the top t principal components with
the greatest eigenvectors, and rotate each input data point x by this matrix (y=Px).
The resulting data points will be in t dimensions. Will his method preserve the
distances between input data points as well as the multi-dimensional scaling
(MDS) algorithm? Justify your answer.

3. (20 pts) Given the following data points in 2 dimensions: (1, 1), (1.5, 2), (3, 4), (5, 7),
(3.5, 5), (4.5, 5), (3.5, 4.5), conduct the k-means clustering, starting from the centroids of
two clusters (k=2) as: (1, 1) and (5, 7). Present the results after each iteration until the
clustering results converge.
4. (20 pts) A simplistic intruder detection system for a computer network consists of an
attempt to categorize users according to (i) the time of day they log in, (ii) the length of
time they log in for, (iii) the types of programs they run while logged in, (iv) the number
of programs they run while logged in. Suggest how you would train a SOM and the naïve
Bayes’ classifier to perform the categorization. What preprocessing of the data would you
do, how much data would you need, and how large would you make the SOM? Do you
think that such a system would work for intruder detection?
5. (20 pts) A bank wants to detect fraudulent credit card transactions. They have data for
lots and lots of transactions (each transaction is an amount of money, a shop, and the time
and date) and some information about when credit cards were stolen, and the transactions
that were performed on the stolen card. Describe how you could use an un-supervised
learning method to cluster people’s transactions together to identify patterns, so that
stolen cards can be detected as changes in pattern. How well do you think this would
work? There is much more data of transactions when cards are not stolen, compared to
stolen transactions. How does this affect the learning, and what can you do about it?

