IUB CSCI B-455 Spring 2020

Principles of Machine Learning

P ROJECT 5
D UE : 11:59 PM , A PRIL 25

1

Introduction

In this project, you will need to train a logistic regression model to classify the movie reviews into
positive and negative reviews. We are going to use the following dataset.
Internet Movie Database (IMDb). This dataset was collected by Maas et al. [1]. The movie
review dataset consists of 50, 000 popular movie reviews that are labeled as either positive or
negative; here, positive means that a movie was rated with more than six stars on IMDb, and
negative means that a movie was rated with fewer than five s tars o n I M D b. You c an d ownload it
from http://ai.stanford.edu/˜amaas/data/sentiment/.
After downloading the dataset, you can proceed to build your model. To help you build the
model, I have listed the key steps you need to do during the training process:
1. Clean text data. During this step, you may want to strip all unwanted characters from
review texts.
2. Process documents into tokens. Some words may have different forms. You may want to
group them into one word.
3. Transform words into feature vectors. Transform each document into a vector where each
dimension represents the frequency of a word (bag-of-words model).
4. Access word relevancy. When we are analyzing text data, we often encounter words that
occur across multiple documents from both classes. Those frequently occurring words typically don’t contain useful or discriminatory information. In this step, you may want to
downweight those frequently occurring words in the feature vectors.
5. Build the logistic model. After finishing all the above mentioned steps, you are now
ready to build the model (e.g., a neural network) using the manipulated vectors.
Remember to report your 5-fold cross-validation error.
You are highly suggested to read Pg. 233 - 245 of Python Machine Learning book, where you
can find most of the codes you need.

Principles of Machine Learning

2

IUB CSCI B-455 Spring 2020

Submission

You will need to submit one pdf file generated by the notebook. Fail to do so will make your
final grade deducted. Make sure all codes are run before generating the pdf file. In the report, you
should specify your model details when necessary. Try to write your code clearly so that someone
else reading the code can understand it without significant effort (i.e. structure it and put enough
documentation). The final grade is based on the clarity of your report.

3

Collaboration

Note that this is an independent project, which means you are not allowed to make a group.
However, discussion is allowed. If you have discussed with someone or got any help from others,
you need to clearly specify their names in acknowledgement.

References
[1] Andrew L Maas, Raymond E Daly, Peter T Pham, Dan Huang, Andrew Y Ng, and Christopher
Potts. Learning word vectors for sentiment analysis. In ACL, pages 142–150, 2011.

