IUB CSCI B455 Spring 2020

Principles of Machine Learning

P ROJECT 4
D UE : 11:45 PM , A PRIL 17

1

Introduction

In this project, you will need to train a regression model to predict how likely an Indian student is
admitted to a graduate school. We are going to use the following dataset.
Graduate Admissions. This dataset was collected by Acharya et al. [1]. It contains several parameters which are considered important during the application for Masters Programs. The parameters included are: 1. GRE Scores (out of 340) 2. TOEFL Scores (out of 120) 3. University Rating
(out of 5) 4. Statement of Purpose and Letter of Recommendation Strength (out of 5) 5. Undergraduate GPA (out of 10) 6. Research Experience (either 0 or 1) 7. Chance of Admit (ranging from
0 to 1). So the goal here is to predict Chance of Admit using the left parameters. You can download
it from https://www.kaggle.com/mohansacharya/graduate-admissions.
Bonus Question. You will get another 5 points if you can build at least three different models
and compare their performance using cross-validation.

2

Submission

You will need to submit one pdf file g enerated b y t he n otebook. F ail t o d o s o w ill m ake your
final grade deducted. Make sure all codes are run before generating the pdf file. In the report, you
should specify your model details when necessary. Try to write your code clearly so that someone
else reading the code can understand it without significant effort (i.e. structure it and put enough
documentation). The final grade is based on the clarity of your report.

3

Collaboration

Note that this is an independent project, which means you are not allowed to make a group.
However, discussion is allowed. If you have discussed with someone or got any help from others,
you need to clearly specify their names in acknowledgement.

Principles of Machine Learning

IUB CSCI B455 Spring 2020

References
[1] Aneeta S Antony Mohan S Acharya, Asfia Armaan. A comparison of regression models for
prediction of graduate admissions. In ICCIDS, 2019.

